Newsletters: add 287 (2024-01-31) (#1488)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-01-31-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #287'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/01/31/
name: 2024-01-31-newsletter
slug: 2024-01-31-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Kindred replace by fee:** Gloria Zhao [posted][zhao v3kindred] to
  Delving Bitcoin about allowing a transaction to replace a related
  transaction in the mempool even if there's no conflict between the two
  transactions.  Two transactions are considered to be _conflicting_
  when they cannot both exist in the same valid block chain, usually

>   because they both try to spend the same input---violating the rule

Author: This is a good simplification.  Thanks to you both!

projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [HWI 2.4.0-rc1][] is a release candidate for the next version of this
  package providing a common interface to multiple different hardware
  signing devices.

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo], and [BINANAs][binana
repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29291][] adds a test that will fail if a transaction
  executing an `OP_CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY` opcode appears to have a
  negative version number.  This test, if it had been run by alternative
  consensus implementations, would have caught the consensus failure bug
  mentioned in [last week's newsletter][news286 bip68ver].

> - [Eclair #2811][], [#2813][eclair #2813], and [#2814][eclair #2814]

Author: @t-bast I'd love your review on this item to make sure I've drawn the correct inference!

Reviewer: That's 100% correct, and is the right conclusion, privacy becomes really good even with a single trampoline node, which is great for mobile wallets!

>   adds the ability for a [trampoline payment][topic trampoline payments]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  add the ability for a [trampoline payment][topic trampoline payments]
```

  to use a [blinded path][topic rv routing] for the ultimate receiver.
  Trampoline routing itself continues to use regular onion-encrypted
  node IDs, i.e. each trampoline node learns the ID for the next
  trampoline node.  However, if a blinded path is used, the final

>   trampoline node will now only learn the node ID for the first
>   forwarding node in the blinded path; it will not learn the ID for

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
  trampoline node will now only learn the node ID for the
  introduction node of the blinded path; it will not learn the ID for
```

  notes that, "in many (if not most) CTV use-cases intended to allow
  multiple parties to share a single UTXO, it is difficult to impossible
  to allow for sufficient CTV variants to cover all possible fee-rates.
  It is expected that CTV would be usually used with [anchor
  outputs][topic ephemeral anchors] to pay fees [...] or possibly, via a
  [transaction sponsor][topic fee sponsorship] soft-fork. [...]
  This requirement for all users to have a UTXO to pay fees negates the
  efficiency of CTV-using UTXO sharing schemes [...] the only realistic
  alternative is to use a third party to pay for the UTXO, eg via a LN
  payment, but at that point it would be more efficient to pay an
  [out-of-band mining fee][topic out-of-band fees]. That of course is
  highly undesirable from a mining centralization perspective." (Links
  added by Optech.) He recommends abandoning CTV and working instead on
  [convenant schemes][topic covenants] that are compatible with
  [RBF][topic rbf].

    John Law replied that fee-dependent timelocks (see [Newsletter
    #283][news283 fdt]) could make CTV safe to use with endogenous fees
    in cases where particular versions of a transaction needed to be

>     confirmed by a deadline, although fee dependent timelocks might

Reviewer 3: Inconsistent usage: fee-dependent vs. fee dependent

    delay some contract settlements by an indefinite amount of time.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aa
nswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [How does block synchronization work in Bitcoin Core today?]({{bse}}121292)
  Pieter Wuille describes the block header tree, block data, and active chaintip

>   block chain data structures and goes on to explain the header synchronization, block

Reviewer 4: I think its actually correct as is as he lists 3 block chain data structures.

>   block chain data structures and goes on to explain the header synchronization, block

Reviewer 3: Yes, however the original version feels like (active chaintip block chain data structures), while I think it should rather be (active chaintip) and (block chain data structures).

  synchronization, and block activation processes that act upon them.

> - [How does headers-first prevent fill-disk attack?]({{bse}}76018)

Reviewer 5: Copying updated title from Bitcoin Stack Exchange:
```suggestion
- [How does headers-first prevent disk-fill attack?]({{bse}}76018)
```

  Pieter Wuille follows up to an old question to explain the more recent IBD
  "Headers Presync" (see [Newsletter #216][news216 headers presync]) header spam
  mitigations added to Bitcoin Core in 24.0.

> - [BIP324 v2transport is redundant on tor + i2p connections?]({{bse}}121360)

Reviewer 5: Copying updated title from Bitcoin Stack Exchange:
```suggestion
- [Is BIP324 v2transport redundant on Tor and I2P connections?]({{bse}}121360)
```

  Pieter Wuille concedes a lack of [v2 transport][topic v2 p2p transport]
  encryption benefits when using [anonymity networks][topic anonymity networks]
  but notes potential computational improvements over v1 unencrypted transport.

- [What's a rule of thumb for setting the maximum number of connections?]({{bse}}121088)
  Pieter Wuille distinguishes between [outbound and inbound
  connections]({{bse}}121015) and lists considerations around setting higher
  `-maxconnections` values.

- [Why isn't the upper bound (+2h) on the block timestamp set as a consensus rule?]({{bse}}121248)
  In this and [other]({{bse}}121247) related [questions]({{bse}}121253), Pieter
  Wuille explains the requirement that a new block's timestamp must be no later
  than two hours in the future, the importance of the requirement, and why "consensus
  rules can only depend on information that is committed to by block hashes".

- [Sigop count and its influence on transaction selection?]({{bse}}121355)

>   User Cosmik Debris asks how the limit on signature check operations, "sigops", impact miner's

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  User Cosmik Debris asks how the limit on signature check operations, "sigops", impact miners'
```

  named `.compute_txid`.  Each time the `.txid` property is called, the
  txid for the transaction is calculated, which consumes enough
  CPU for it to be a concern to anyone running the function on large
  transactions or many smaller transactions.  It is hoped that the new
  name for the property will help downstream programmers realize its
  potential costs.  The `.wtxid` and `.ntxid` properties (respectively
  based on [BIP141][] and [BIP140][]) are similarly renamed to
  `.compute_wtxid` and `.compute_ntxid`.

- [HWI #716][] adds support for the [Trezor Safe 3][] hardware signing
  device.

- [BDK #1172][] adds a block-by-block API for the wallet.  A user with
  access to a sequence of blocks that they believe may contain
  transactions affecting the wallet can iterate over those blocks to
  update the wallet based on any transactions in those blocks.  This can
  be simply used to iterate over every block on a chain.  Alternatively,
  software can use some sort of filtering method (e.g. [compact block
  filtering][topic compact block filters]) to find only blocks that are
  likely to have wallet-affecting transactions and iterate over that
  subset of blocks.

> - [BINANAs #3][] adds [BIN24-4][] with a list of specification

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [BINANAs #3][] adds [BIN24-5][] with a list of specification
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #287'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/01/31/
name: 2024-01-31-newsletter
slug: 2024-01-31-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Kindred replace by fee:** Gloria Zhao [posted][zhao v3kindred] to
  Delving Bitcoin about allowing a transaction to replace a related
  transaction in the mempool even if there's no conflict between the two
  transactions.  Two transactions are considered to be _conflicting_
  when they cannot both exist in the same valid block chain, usually
  because they both try to spend the same input---violating the rule
  that an input can only be spent once within a particular block chain.
  The rules for [RBF][topic rbf] compare a transaction in the
  mempool against a newly received transaction that conflicts with it.
  Zhao suggests an idealized way to think about a conflicts policy: if
  you have two transactions but you can only accept one, you should not

>   choose the one that arrives first---you should choose the one that

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should note here that the you is a miner in this context?

  best suits your goals (such as maximizing miner revenue without
  allowing effectively free relay).  The RBF rules attempt to do that

>   for conflicts, Zhao in her post extends the idea to related

Reviewer 4: Seems run on sentence-y to me

  relay] only allow an unconfirmed v3 parent to have a single child
  transaction in the mempool.  Applying the existing RBF rules to
  replacements of that child is easy and Zhao has [implemented it][zhao
  kindredimpl].  If, as described in [last week's newsletter][news286
  imbued], existing LN commitment transactions using [anchors
  outputs][topic anchor outputs] are automatically enrolled in the v3
  policy, this ensures either party can always fee bump the commitment
  transaction:

  - Alice can send the commitment transaction with a child transaction
    to pay fees.

  - Alice can later RBF her existing child transaction to increase the
    fees.

  - Bob can use kindred replacement to evict Alice's child by sending a
    child of his own that pays higher fees.

  - Alice can later use kindred replacement on Bob's child by sending a
    child of hers with an even higher fee (removing Bob's child).

  Adding this policy and automatically applying it to current LN anchors
  will allow the [CPFP carve-out rule][topic cpfp carve out] to be
  removed, which is necessary for [cluster mempool][topic cluster
  mempool] to be implemented, which should allow making replacements

>   of all kinds more incentive compatible in the future.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  of all kinds more incentive-compatible in the future.
```

  As of this writing, there were no objections to the idea on the forum.
  One notable question was about whether this eliminated the need for
  [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors], but the author of that
  proposal (Gregory Sanders) replied, "I have no plans on dropping

>   ephemeral anchor work.  Zero-satoshi outputs have a number of

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  ephemeral anchor work.  Zero-satoshi outputs have several
```

Author: Not changing a direct quote for this.

Reviewer 6: Oh sorry, my mistake, I didn't notice this was within a quote, I agree.

  important use cases outside of LN."

> - **Opposition to CTV on basis of commonly requiring exogenous fees:**

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Opposition to CTV based on commonly requiring exogenous fees:**
```
(or maybe "Opposition to CTV on the basis of")

  "Headers Presync" (see [Newsletter #216][news216 headers presync]) header spam
  mitigations added to Bitcoin Core in 24.0.

- [Is BIP324 v2transport redundant on Tor and I2P connections?]({{bse}}121360)
  Pieter Wuille concedes a lack of [v2 transport][topic v2 p2p transport]
  encryption benefits when using [anonymity networks][topic anonymity networks]
  but notes potential computational improvements over v1 unencrypted transport.

- [What's a rule of thumb for setting the maximum number of connections?]({{bse}}121088)
  Pieter Wuille distinguishes between [outbound and inbound
  connections]({{bse}}121015) and lists considerations around setting higher
  `-maxconnections` values.

- [Why isn't the upper bound (+2h) on the block timestamp set as a consensus rule?]({{bse}}121248)
  In this and [other]({{bse}}121247) related [questions]({{bse}}121253), Pieter
  Wuille explains the requirement that a new block's timestamp must be no later
  than two hours in the future, the importance of the requirement, and why "consensus
  rules can only depend on information that is committed to by block hashes".

- [Sigop count and its influence on transaction selection?]({{bse}}121355)

>   User Cosmik Debris asks how the limit on signature check operations, "sigops", impact miners'

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  User Cosmik Debris asks how the limit on signature check operations, "sigops", impacts miners'
```

  consensus implementations, would have caught the consensus failure bug
  mentioned in [last week's newsletter][news286 bip68ver].

- [Eclair #2811][], [#2813][eclair #2813], and [#2814][eclair #2814]
  adds the ability for a [trampoline payment][topic trampoline payments]
  to use a [blinded path][topic rv routing] for the ultimate receiver.
  Trampoline routing itself continues to use regular onion-encrypted
  node IDs, i.e. each trampoline node learns the ID for the next
  trampoline node.  However, if a blinded path is used, the final
  trampoline node will now only learn the node ID for the first
  forwarding node in the blinded path; it will not learn the ID for
  the ultimate receiver.

    Previously, strong trampoline privacy depended on using multiple
    trampoline forwarders so that none of the forwarders could be sure
    they were the final forwarder.  A downside of this approach is that
    it used longer paths that increased the probability of forwarding
    failure and required paying more forwarding fees for success.  Now
    forwarding payments through even a single trampoline node can
    prevent that node from learning the ultimate receiver.

> - [LND #8167][] allows an LND channel to mutually close a channel that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [LND #8167][] allows an LND node to mutually close a channel that
```

  still has one or more pending payments ([HTLCs][topic htlc]).  The
  [BOLT2][] specification indicates the proper procedure for this is for
  one side to send a `shutdown` message, after which no new HTLCs will
  be accepted.  After all pending HTLCs are resolved offchain, the two
  parties negotiate and sign a mutual close transaction.  Previously,
  when LND received a `shutdown` message, it would force close the
  channel, requiring extra onchain transactions and fees to settle.

- [LND #7733][] updates [watchtower][topic watchtowers] support to enable
  backing up and enforcing correct shutdown of the [simple taproot
  channels][topic simple taproot channels] that are now supported
  experimentally by LND.

> - [LND #8275][] begins requiring peers support certain

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [LND #8275][] begins requiring peers to support certain
```

Reviewer 6: as-is still sounds off to me -- as a different suggestion, maybe "begins requiring that peers support certain"
(this is minor)

  universally-deployed features as specified in [BOLTs #1092][] (see
  [Newsletter #259][news259 lncleanup]).

> - [Rust Bitcoin #2366][] depreciates the `.txid` property on

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Rust Bitcoin #2366][] deprecates the `.txid` property on
```

  `Transaction` objects and begins providing a replacement property
  named `.compute_txid`.  Each time the `.txid` property is called, the
  txid for the transaction is calculated, which consumes enough
  CPU for it to be a concern to anyone running the function on large
  transactions or many smaller transactions.  It is hoped that the new
  name for the property will help downstream programmers realize its
  potential costs.  The `.wtxid` and `.ntxid` properties (respectively
  based on [BIP141][] and [BIP140][]) are similarly renamed to

>   `.compute_wtxid` and `.compute_ntxid`.

Reviewer 3: To be more precise, all these are _methods_ on `Transaction`, not properties. And as such they should be accompanied by parentheses, e. g. `.compute_txid()`.

> - [HWI #716][] adds support for the [Trezor Safe 3][] hardware signing

Reviewer 4: Unsure about the product link

Author: Dropping link.  I did a quick grep and don't see us linking to products for previous HWI updates.

  device.

- [BDK #1172][] adds a block-by-block API for the wallet.  A user with
  access to a sequence of blocks that they believe may contain
  transactions affecting the wallet can iterate over those blocks to
  update the wallet based on any transactions in those blocks.  This can

>   be simply used to iterate over every block on a chain.  Alternatively,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  be simply used to iterate over every block in a chain.  Alternatively,
```

- [BIP324 v2transport is redundant on tor + i2p connections?]({{bse}}121360)
  Pieter Wuille concedes a lack of [v2 transport][topic v2 p2p transport]
  encryption benefits when using [anonymity networks][topic anonymity networks]
  but notes potential computational improvements over v1 unencrypted transport.

- [What's a rule of thumb for setting the maximum number of connections?]({{bse}}121088)
  Pieter Wuille distinguishes between [outbound and inbound
  connections]({{bse}}121015) and lists considerations around setting higher
  `-maxconnections` values.

- [Why isn't the upper bound (+2h) on the block timestamp set as a consensus rule?]({{bse}}121248)
  In this and [other]({{bse}}121247) related [questions]({{bse}}121253), Pieter
  Wuille explains the requirement that a new block's timestamp must be no later
  than two hours in the future, the importance of the requirement, and why "consensus
  rules can only depend on information that is committed to by block hashes".

- [Sigop count and its influence on transaction selection?]({{bse}}121355)
  User Cosmik Debris asks how the limit on signature check operations, "sigops", impact miner's

>   block template construction and mempool-based [fee estimation][topic fee estimation].

Reviewer 4: TBH I thought the question was the interesting part. But I did push come additional insights from the answer just now
